A father lived with his son, who was an alcoholic. When drunk, the son often became violent and physically abused his father. As a result, the father always lived in fear. One night, the father heard his son on the front stoop making loud obscene remarks. The father was certain that his son was drunk and was terrified that he would be physically beaten again. In his fear, he bolted the front door and took out a revolver. When the son discovered that the door was bolted, he kicked it down. As the son burst through the front door, his father shot him four times in the chest, killing him. In fact, the son was not under the influence of alcohol or any drug and did not intend to harm his father.

At trial, the father presented the above facts and asked the judge to instruct the jury on self-defense. How should the judge instruct the jury with respect to self-defense? 

(A) Give the self-defense instruction, because it expresses the defense’s theory of the case. 
(*) Give the self-defense instruction, because the evi-dence is sufficient to raise the defense. 
(C) Deny the self-defense instruction, because the father was not in imminent danger from his son. 
(D) Deny the self-defense instruction, because the father used excessive force. 

---------

A man sued a railroad for personal injuries suffered when his car was struck by a train at an unguarded crossing. A major issue is whether the train sounded its whistle before arriving at the crossing. The railroad has offered the testimony of a resident who has lived near the crossing for 15 years. Although she was not present on the occasion in question, she will testify that, whenever she is home, the train always sounds its whistle before arriving at the crossing. Is the resident’s testimony admissible? 

(A) No, due to the resident’s lack of personal knowledge regarding the incident in question. 
(B) No, because habit evidence is limited to the conduct of persons, not businesses. 
(*) Yes, as evidence of a routine practice. 
(D) Yes, as a summary of her present sense impressions.


---------

To keep its public school expenditures under control in a time of increasing costs, a state passed a law providing that children who have not lived in the state for at least one year cannot attend public schools in the state. Which of the following statements about this law is most accurate as a matter of constitutional law?

(A) The one-year residence requirement is valid because it does not affect any fundamental right or suspect class. 
(B) State durational residence requirements that are estab-lished for publicly funded services are constitutional because they relate to government operations reserved exclusively to the states by the Tenth Amendment. 
(C) Because publicly funded education is a fundamental constitutional right, a state may not deny it to any class of persons who reside in that state. 
(*) State durational residence requirements established for this kind of publicly funded service solely for the purpose of reducing state expenditures violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 



17.


